Why complete our Job Simulation
A risk-free way to experience work on the job with us at Tata. Practice your skills with example tasks and build your confidence to ace your applications.
Self-paced
3-4 hours
No gradesNo assessments
intermediate
Welcome to the GenAI Powered Data Analytics Job Simulation! We are thrilled to have you here.

Tata Insights and Quants (Tata iQ) is the Tata Group’s advanced analytics and AI center of excellence. Tata iQ partners with companies across the Group to turn data into competitive advantage by enabling smarter, data-informed decision-making.

During this program, you will step into the role of an AI transformation consultant and complete tasks that replicate the work this role does every day. You’ll learn key skills in:

Predictive modeling using GenAI tools
Data exploration and quality assessment
Business storytelling and recommendation design
Designing AI-driven systems for fair and responsible automation
We hope this program provides a great resource for you to upskill and strengthen your resume as you explore career options and a potential future at Tata iQ.

View all
Skills you will learn and practice:
Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)
GenAI Data Insights
Analytical Reporting
Handling Missing Data
Predictive Modeling
Model Selection
Model Justification
Business Communication
Strategic Thinking
Ethical Reasoning
View All
How it works
Complete tasks guided by pre-recorded videos and example answers from our team at Tata. No live sessions, all self-paced.
Earn a certificate and add it to your resume and LinkedIn as an extracurricular activity.
Stand out in applications. Confidently answer interview questions and explain why you’re a good fit for our team.
Company Logo
Introduction from Tata
Explore Our Job Sims

Tasks in this program

Intro & Scenario

1
Task One

2
Task Two

3
Task Three

4
Task Four

Finish Line
Intro & Scenario
Meet your team members and learn about your project goals.
Your role
You are an AI transformation consultant at Tata iQ, specializing in data-driven decision-making for financial services.
You work within a larger data analytics team, collaborating with business leaders to develop AI-powered solutions.
Your team has been tasked with helping Geldium Finance, a financial services company, reduce its high credit card delinquency rate by performing advanced analytics and building AI/ML models with the assistance of GenAI. 
Your goal
Your primary objective is to analyze customer data and predict delinquency risks using AI-driven techniques.
You will develop a recommendation framework to help the Head of Collections at Geldium determine the best intervention strategies for at-risk customers.
Throughout the project, you will ensure that AI-driven solutions are ethical, explainable, and effective in supporting responsible financial decision-making.
Reviews
Over 10250
5 Star Reviews
"The simulation provided a clear, real-world scenario that effectively blended data analysis, predictive modeling, and business strategy. I appreciated how it guided me to think critically about both technical and ethical aspects, especially around responsible AI use in financial services. The step-by-step structure made complex tasks approachable,..."
-- Student from Chaudhary Charan Singh University
Not the right career for you?
Browse Other Job Sims
We‘re on a mission to get motivated students into great jobs.
For Students
Explore Jobs
Short Courses
All Job Simulations
Software Engineering Job Sims
Consulting Job Sims
Banking & Financial Services Job Sims
Law Job Sims
Data Job Sims
Security Job Sims
Student Blog
For Enterprise
Sign In
Enterprise Resources
Request a Demo
For Educators
Sign In
Educator Resources
Register as an Educator
About Us
About
Editorial Guidelines
Press
Careers
Contact
FAQs
Support
Privacy Notice
Privacy Preferences
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Terms of Use
Responsible Disclosure Program
Sitemap
